       ii. Where a bicycle lane closure is approved, advance signage shall be placed 125 feet or more
           upstream of the closure taper and clear of the active bicycle lane to allow bicyclists to merge into the
           adjoining motor vehicle traffic lane. Signage shall include a “BIKE LANE CLOSED AHEAD” sign and
           “BICYCLES MAY USE FULL LANE” sign.

      iii. Where a bicycle lane closure is approved, the bicycle lane shall be closed with cones or delineators
           at a 7:1 taper. The taper shall be illuminated during nighttime closures.

   d. Parking Lane Closures
       i. Where closure of a parking lane without paid parking is approved, the Permittee is required to place
           “No Parking” signs (MUTCD R7-1 or R7-2 signs) adjacent to the parking lane and meet the following
           requirements:
                 1. Signage shall be placed at least 24 hours prior to closure.
                 2. Sign spacing should be no more than 150 feet between signs.
                 3. Signage shall have consistent closure times noted clearly.

   e. Bus Stop Closures
       i. Temporary relocation or closure of a bus stop for construction activity requires written approval
           from both the City Traffic Engineer and RTD. Any parking obstruction, sidewalk obstruction, travel
           lane obstruction, or other accommodation required for a temporary bus stop shall be at the
           Permittee’s cost.

   f. Intermittent or Short-Duration Closures
       i. If a pedestrian or bicycle facility must be closed intermittently due to conflicts with construction
           activities or construction vehicles, establishing a pedestrian and/or bicycle detour may not be
           necessary if the work can be stopped to allow pedestrians and/or bicyclists to navigate the work
           zone safely.
       ii. The City Traffic Engineer may require:
                 1. Flaggers or spotters be posted at each end of the closed pedestrian or bicycle facility for the
                      entire duration of time the intermittent closure is in place; and
                 2. The safe and reasonable flow of pedestrian and bicycle traffic be maintained in preference
                      to construction activities and the flow of construction vehicles.

   g. Traffic Signal Impacts
       i. If, as determined by the City Traffic Engineer, the proposed traffic control affects a signalized
           intersection, uniformed police officers shall be provided at the Permittee’s cost.

2. Design Requirements for Work Zone Detours
   a. Public right-of-way closures longer than 72 hours and in the Premium High-Use Area that result in a
        detour for a pedestrian or bicycle facility shall adhere to the requirements in Figure 1.
   b. Pedestrian Accessible Route (PAR)
       i. A 5-foot wide clear pedestrian accessible route is desirable. At a minimum, the Permittee shall
           provide a 4-foot wide clear unobstructed pedestrian route on any sidewalk at all times with a 5’ by
           5’ wide passing area at 200-foot minimum intervals. The width shall be measured at the walkway
           from wall to wall, and not from handrail to wall or handrail to handrail. A greater minimum width of
           unobstructed passage may be required to facilitate significant pedestrian volumes.

                                      City and County of Denver — Department of Transportation & Infrastructure
                                                    201 West Colfax Ave. Dept. 608 | Denver, CO 80202
                                                                      www.denvergov.org/doti
                                                                       Phone: 720-865-8630
