      General Traffic Control Procedures for Street/Public Occupancy Permits

Authority:     • Part VI Standards & Guidelines for Traffic Controls for Street & Highway
                 Construction, Maintenance, Utility, and Incident Management Operations

               • U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration: 2009 Edition
                 of MUTCD, Revision 2, May 2012

               • U.S. Access Board: Proposed Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public
                 Right-of-Way, July 2011

               • Department of Transportation and Infrastructure Rules and Regulations
                 Pertaining to the Issuance of Permits by the City Traffic Engineer, 2022

Purpose of     The purpose of traffic control devices and warrants for their use is to provide safety
Traffic        for motorists, pedestrians, workers, and enforcement/emergency personnel and
Control Plan:  equipment.

Document Date: April 2022

Permit Types: Revocable Street Occupancy Permits (RSOP) for use of any portion of the public
                      right-of-way.

Description of Public right-of-way is typically the land area between private properties and includes

Public Right of streets, alleys, bicycle facilities, storm drainage, sanitary and storm sewer piping,

Way:           sidewalks, landscaping/tree lawns, utilities, medians, and street furniture, etc.

Permit Dates:  • By customer request
               • See requirements for specific/special permit type(s)

Customer       • DOTI Right of Way Services – Reviews traffic control plans on arterial & collector
Interface:       streets. See ROWS Construction Engineering Inspector District Map for contact
                 information.

               • DOTI ROWS Permit Operations – Issues Revocable Street Occupancy Permits,
                 303-446-3759

Affiliated     • DOTI ROWS Permit Operations – Processes and issues permits and may review
Departments &    residential permits
Agencies, and
Roles:         • DOTI Right of Way Services – Reviews and approves TCPs as part of the permit
                 approval process

               • DOTI Operations and Transportation Design – Reviews TCPs which are part of a
                 large event or development

               • Denver Office of Special Events, 720-913-1501
               • Parks & Recreation – Permits for proper retention of trees in the right-of-way,

                 720-913-0700
               • Contractor Licensing – Issues licenses to work in the right-of-way, 720-865-2770

Additional     Barricade company of choice to draw the Traffic Control Plans (TCP) for arterials,
Contacts:      collector streets, and/or large-scale projects and to supply the required traffic
               control devices.
               NOTE: For most residential areas a typical TCP can be utilized and can be provided by
               DOTI Permit Operations.

               City and County of Denver — Department of Transportation & Infrastructure
                            201 West Colfax Ave. Dept. 608 | Denver, CO 80202
                                               www.denvergov.org/doti
                                                Phone: 720-865-8630
