9. Special Events

       a. Special Events that occupy public streets including parking lanes, Bicycle Facilities,
           alleys, sidewalks, Sidewalk Areas, and public plazas shall require an RSOP and/or
           parking meter permit. This includes the placement of structures, stages, tents,
           tables, equipment, or anything that is not mobile in the public right-of-way.

       b. Special Events that take place within public right-of-way must coordinate with the
           Office of Special Events. Note that there may be multiple departments and agencies
           that require permits and approvals in addition to the RSOP.

       c. An MHT or TCP shall be generated and maintained by a certified Traffic Control
           Supervisor (TCS).

       d. A detour plan shall be required when a Special Event closes a collector or arterial
           roadway, Bicycle Facility, sidewalk, or Sidewalk Area.

10. Emergency Services

       a. Emergency service trucks may use and occupy a street or alley while engaged in
           providing emergency maintenance or repair service as defined as service of such a
           necessity that undue hardship or hazard could occur if immediate services were not
           provided. The CTE or designee may issue an annual permit for emergency service
           authority if the possibility of hardship or hazard can be demonstrated to their
           satisfaction.

       b. Emergency service trucks may not park at any one location in violation of parking
           regulations longer than four (4) hours without obtaining an RSOP from the CTE.
           While occupying a street or alley in an emergency, the RSOP must be displayed,
           proper traffic control must be set up, and the CTE or designee notified. Emergency
           service permits cannot be used to circumvent an RSOP.

11. Contractor Parking

       a. The CTE may require Permittee to document existing parking occupancy,
           demonstrate existing parking capacity for contractor parking, or establish a
           designated construction truck zone prior to any construction. Section 54-651
           D.R.M.C.

       b. Any large project (improvements estimated at $100,000 or more and lasting longer
           than a week) shall include a parking plan covering all contractor staff and
           subcontractors who will access the work zone. The parking plan should minimize
           impacts to surrounding businesses and residences. The CTE may require the
           Permittee to provide off-site parking if there is not sufficient parking in the work
           zone and in existing parking lanes adjacent to the project site.

3/4/2022  Page 8 of 11
