       b. MUTCD, as revised by the Colorado Supplement, current edition

       c. ADAAG, current edition

5. The Permittee shall maintain all areas specified on all permits in a neat and orderly
    manner.

6. The Permittee is responsible for the removal of all refuse deposited on State Highways,
    city streets, or the sidewalk prior to reopening for vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian traffic.
    The Permittee shall ensure that all areas are returned to equal or better condition prior to
    construction or closure.

7. Nothing in any permit issued by the CTE nor in any statement made by them, or personnel
    of this office, shall relieve the Permittee from liability for all injury or damage to persons
    and property, nor may such a permit relieve the Permittee from complying with all other
    applicable requirements of the D.R.M.C., or those of any affected agency. Further, in the
    event that any claim is made against the City and County of Denver or any department,
    officer, or employee thereof, through by reason of, or in connection with any act or
    omissions of the Permittee, the Permittee shall defend, indemnify, and hold each of them
    harmless from any claim. RSOPs will be required on new street sections after initial
    acceptance and deeding is final.

VII. PENALTIES

  1. Where any utility companies, private contractors, or other entities obstructing or
      conducting construction activities in the public right-of-way fail to comply with these
      Rules and Regulations, the procedures incorporated by reference herein, and/or the
      terms or conditions of any permit issued by the CTE, the following sanctions, remedies,
      and penalties may be applied:

         a. Any failure to comply by the Permittee is cause for the immediate revocation of the
             permit and removal of right-of-way obstructions and/or work zone. The CTE or
             designee and the DPD have the authority to issue a stop-work order or cancel or
             revoke any permit without cause. Section 49-246 D.R.M.C.

         b. Any failure to comply or failure to obtain a permit prior to obstructing public right-
             of-way is cause for application of an administrative citation by the CTE or ROWS staff
             pursuant to Section 2-283 D.R.M.C.

         c. Any failure to fulfill permit requirements and restrictions is cause for imposing a
             non-compliance fee by the DOTI staff. Citable offenses include, but are not limited
             to:

                  i. Unpermitted closure of a sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, alley, Bicycle Facility,
                        parking lane, or traffic lane

3/4/2022  Page 10 of 11
