       c. Any work zone that will result in the closure of a sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, Bicycle
           Facility, parking lane, motor vehicle traffic lane, public transit stop, or other public
           pedestrian path shall apply for an RSOP and submit a Method of Handling Traffic
           (MHT) or Traffic Control Plan (TCP) prepared by a certified traffic control company to
           Transportation Operations for review and approval.

       d. Weekday motor vehicle traffic lane or Bicycle Facility closures on arterials or
           collectors will only be approved during off-peak times (8:30am to 3:30pm or 8:00pm
           to 5:00am) to alleviate the traffic impacts as much as possible.

       e. Public right-of-way closures for greater than 72 hours and within the Premium High-
           Use Area are not permitted to detour pedestrians or bicyclists outside of the existing
           Sidewalk Area or adjacent parking or traffic lane. Special requests in unique
           situations for temporary detours of sidewalks or Bicycle Facilities within the
           Premium High-Use Area may be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the CTE and
           shall only be used as a last resort.

       f. In all other areas, maintaining and protecting five (5) feet of unobstructed width on
           existing sidewalks, Sidewalk Areas, and Bicycle Facilities is the highest priority. For
           Bicycle Facilities directly adjacent to curb and gutter, six (6) feet of unobstructed
           width (inclusive of the gutter pan width) is the highest priority. If a temporary
           pedestrian accessible route or Bicycle Facility can be maintained in the adjacent
           parking or motor vehicle traffic lane, the Permittee will not be charged the normal
           closure fee for the adjacent parking or traffic lane. If five (5) feet of unobstructed
           width cannot be maintained, the Permittee will be charged the full length of a block
           for a sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, or Bicycle Facility closure.

       g. Requests for a permit to fully close the sidewalk or Sidewalk Area in the middle of
           the block for greater than 72 hours without a temporary pedestrian accessible route
           in the adjacent parking or motor vehicle traffic lane are not permitted. If a
           temporary pedestrian accessible route is not provided, pedestrians are forced to
           walk around the work site, usually into the street with vehicular traffic.

5. Detours

       a. All detours shall meet the requirements of PWPT-116.0 General Traffic Control
           Procedures for Street/Public Occupancy Permits, as amended.

       b. When a sidewalk or Bicycle Facility is required to be diverted from its existing
           alignment, the resulting detour shall be maintained at equal or better levels of
           safety and amenity as that found on the existing facility.

       c. The Permittee is required to maintain pedestrian and bicycle detours for the
           approved duration of any closure.

       d. If a detour requires any crossing of active traffic lanes, such crossing shall only be
           allowed at a controlled crossing. A controlled crossing must include a permanent or

3/4/2022  Page 6 of 11
