      sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, or in any way interfere with the movement of traffic on the travel
      lanes of any local, arterial, or collector street must have a written RSOP from the CTE or
      designee, except for those operating under the following conditions (Section 54-652
      D.R.M.C.):

         a. Those operating under an excavation permit issued by the Manager of DOTI
         b. Those operating under an emergency service truck permit issued by the CTE
         c. Those owned or operated by the City or the Colorado Department of Transportation

             (CDOT)
         d. Those operating under a contract to the City or to the CDOT

 4. An RSOP issued under Chapter 54 D.R.M.C. is valid only according to the conditions and
      limitations described on said permit and any violations of such conditions and limitations
      is a violation of these rules and regulations and Section 54-652 (b) D.R.M.C. If the public
      right-of-way is occupied illegally, the CTE or designee and/or the Denver Police
      Department (DPD) have the authority to order the immediate removal of all
      encumbrances from the public right-of-way.

III. PRIORITIZATION OF STREET OCCUPANCY IMPACTS

 1. The blockage of a sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, Bicycle Facility, or other public pedestrian path
      shall be treated the same as the closure of a motor vehicle traffic lane by applying similar
      temporary traffic control practices for each permit issued.

 2. The method for providing safe accommodations for pedestrians when closing a sidewalk,
      Sidewalk Area, or other public path in conformance with MUTCD Section 6D.01 Pedestrian
      Considerations should be prioritized as follows:

         a. Protect the existing pedestrian route from the worksite and associated construction
             activities

         b. Provide a temporary pedestrian route in place of an existing parking lane and
             protect it from adjacent motor vehicle traffic

         c. Provide a multi-use path in place of an existing Bicycle Facility and protect it from
             adjacent motor vehicle traffic

         d. Provide a pedestrian route in place of an existing Bicycle Facility, protect it from
             motor vehicle traffic, and merge bicyclists with motor vehicle traffic

         e. Provide a temporary pedestrian route in place of an existing motor vehicle traffic
             lane and protect it from adjacent motor vehicle traffic

         f. Provide a pedestrian detour route that maintains equal or better levels of safety and
             amenity as the closed pedestrian route

3/4/2022  Page 3 of 11
