Premium High-Use Area – Public roadways with existing or projected high non-motorized use
or safety concerns, as delineated in the Blueprint Denver “Pedestrian Enhanced Areas” or
Denver Vision Zero Action Plan “High Injury Network”.

Charitable Organization – Includes charitable organizations, corporations and other entities
meeting the requirements set out in Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c), Colorado Revised
Statutes Section 39‐26‐102 (2.5), or Section 53‐24 (1) D.R.M.C.
Revocable Street Occupancy Permit (RSOP) – A written permit authorizing its holder to occupy
a street or alley while engaged in providing services. D.R.M.C. 54-652.

Special Event – As defined herein, any planned extraordinary, temporary use of the public
right-of-way or public premises of 25 people or more including, but not limited to, bicycle or
foot races, concerts, festivals, parades, processions, demonstrations, block parties, or other
events that delay or interfere with pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicular traffic.

Emergency Services – Maintenance services of such a necessity that undue hardship or hazard
could occur if immediate service were not provided. Evidence of undue hardship or hazard
needs to be documented to the City Traffic Engineer's satisfaction. Emergency services permits
cannot be used to circumvent an RSOP. Section 54-654 D.R.M.C.

AASHTO – American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Policy on
Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, current edition

MUTCD – Federal Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways, current edition Colorado Supplement

PROWAG – United States Access Board Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-
Way, current draft

ADAAG – Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines, current edition

II. AUTHORITY

 1. The City Traffic Engineer (CTE) shall exercise the powers granted in Chapter 54 D.R.M.C.,
      consistent with the charter relating to the Manager of the Department of Transportation
      and Infrastructure (DOTI). Sections 54-41, and 54-652 D.R.M.C.

 2. DOTI Right of Way Services (ROWS), under the authority of the CTE or designee, is solely
      responsible for the issuance of all permits for the occupancy of the public right-of-way and
      collection of all appropriate fees.

 3. Any vehicle or equipment may occupy any street or alley when engaged in providing
      required services in said street or alley, or to adjacent property, providing said vehicle or
      equipment is properly authorized. Vehicles or equipment which occupy the travel lanes,

3/4/2022  Page 2 of 11
