V. PERMIT FEES

 1. Fees for revocable street occupancy and parking meter permits shall be required and
     administered according to the Department of Transportation and Infrastructure Schedule
     of Fees. Fees, with the exception of inspection fees, shall be applied daily for each day of
     use.

 2. Charitable Organizations seeking permits for Special Events that are open to the general
     public will pay a reduced permit fees as noted in the Department of Transportation and
     Infrastructure Schedule of Fees.

 3. Charitable Organizations seeking reduced permit fees will be required to provide
     documentary proof of tax‐exempt status at the time of permit application.
     Documentary proof may include:
         a. A current copy of a 501(c)(3) tax exemption form;
         b. A current State of Colorado Tax Exemption Certificate; or
         c. A current City and County of Denver Tax Exemption Letter

 4. Private, invitation-only events, or events closed to the general public are not eligible for
     reduced fees.

 5. All fees for use of the public right-of-way will be assessed for the entire period and
     collected at time of permit issuance or at a time agreed to by the CTE or designee.

VI. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PERMITTEE

 1. The Permittee shall adhere to all conditions of the permit. The Permittee shall also be
      responsible for ensuring that all subcontractors adhere to all conditions of the permit.

 2. The location of all signs, pavement markings, and barricades as specified on the permit
      shall be strictly adhered to at all times by the Permittee. When a lane is being utilized as
      the permit specifies, all barricades and signage shall be in place. Where the CTE or
      designee deems it necessary to modify a permit for the improvement of traffic flow, the
      Permittee shall comply with the modification.

 3. When any right-of-way-closure is temporarily reopened during non-working hours, the
      Permittee shall remove all barricades and signage from the roadway and sidewalk. All
      barricades and signage shall be covered, removed, or laid flat so they are not visible to
      traffic when not in use, no longer applicable, or as directed by the CTE or designee.

 4. All barricades and signage as specified on any permit will be the responsibility of the
      applicant and will be in accordance with the following standards:

         a. DOTI standards and details, current editions

3/4/2022  Page 9 of 11
