           owners, residents, and any other parties identified by ROWS at least 48 hours in
           advance of the closure. In the event of a full street closure, a minimum two (2) week
           notice is required. For Emergency Services work, the Permittee should provide
           notification as soon as possible to impacted property owners, business owners, and
           residents.

       b. If schools, health care facilities, senior centers, or community centers are within 500
           feet of a closure, they must be included in notification requirements.

       c. At a minimum, identified parties must be notified using a door hanger that outlines
           important information related to the closure, including the area impacted, the
           expected start and end dates for the closure, and a contact number for the
           responsible contractor. Any posted detours and emergency closures within the
           Central Business District (CBD) requires a press release. The Permittee is responsible
           for issuing their press.

       d. The Permittee must clearly post and maintain a legible and weather-resistant sign at
           or near any closure, indicating the RSOP number, the duration of the closure, and
           the contact information of the Permittee.

4. Closures

       a. All work zones and closures shall meet the requirements of PWPT-116.0 General
           Traffic Control Procedures for Street/Public Occupancy Permits, as amended.

       b. It is the intent of this Rule that all sidewalks, Sidewalk Areas, and Bicycle Facilities
           remain open during adjacent construction. When this is not possible, the
           prioritization of safe accommodations in Section III shall be followed. When
           determining whether it is practical to require either the protection of the existing
           path of travel, or to permit a diversion or detour, the CTE may evaluate:

                     i. The inconvenience and hazard to the public
                     ii. Other permitted construction activity with pedestrian or bicycle mobility

                         impacts within a reasonable distance of the affected facility, as
                         determined by the CTE
                    iii. Whether the requested closure will adversely impact a major public
                         transit stop, freight route, or bicycle route
                    iv. The impact of a diversion or closure on adjoining properties, schools,
                         health care facilities, and businesses
                     v. The expense of keeping the existing facility open
                    vi. The duration of the proposed closure
                   vii. Whether the Permittee can demonstrate to the CTE’s satisfaction that
                         the closure will not adversely impact public safety, health and welfare, or
                         the provision of public services, including transportation services

                   viii. impacts to pedestrians with disabilities as required by ADA

3/4/2022  Page 5 of 11
