           temporary traffic signal, signage with rectangular rapid-flashing beacon, flagger, or
           uniformed traffic control, as approved by the CTE.

6. Covered Walkways

       a. All covered pedestrian walkways shall meet the requirements of PWPT-117.0
           Pedestrian Walkway Entrance Requirements, as amended.

       b. If a covered walkway is used as a detour adjacent to the closed sidewalk without any
           additional street crossings, a reduced closure fee will be charged for the sidewalk
           that is closed to pedestrians (minus the area that is open to pedestrians within the
           covered walkway).

7. Parking Lanes

       a. Any impacts to paid parking shall meet the requirements of PWPT-203.1 Parking
           Meter Entrance Requirements, as amended.

       b. A parking meter permit is required if a parking lane with paid parking (including
           parking meters or kiosks) will be closed or removed for a project. The Permittee
           must obtain the meter permit as part of an RSOP, prior to or at the same time as
           issuance of the RSOP.

       c. Paid parking that is temporarily removed for a project will be charged at the rates
           specified in the DOTI Schedule of Fees (see Section V) from the time the meter is
           removed until the meter is re-installed. Meter head removal can only be performed
           by Transportation Operations.

       d. Any permanent removal of a parking meter for a project shall be supported by both
           the City Traffic Engineer and Development Engineering Services in the form of an
           approved Transportation Engineering Plan.

       e. If a parking meter is permanently removed for a project without the support of
           Traffic Engineering Services and Development Engineering Services, the Permittee
           will be assessed a fee of the total yearly meter revenue and citation revenue
           multiplied by 15.

8. Containers and Dumpsters

       a. All containers and dumpsters shall require an RSOP prior to placement in the public
           right-of-way and shall meet the requirements of PWPT-104.1 Dumpsters, Roll-offs
           and other Containers, as amended.

       b. The container or dumpster must be placed adjacent to the property associated with
           the permit, either in a parking lane or adjacent to the Sidewalk Area. At no time can
           a container or dumpster encroach on an open sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, Bicycle
           Facility, or motor vehicle traffic lane.

3/4/2022  Page 7 of 11
