 RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS BY THE
                                   CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER

I. DEFINITIONS

Truck – A truck shall be defined as any motor vehicle, which is used for the transportation or
delivery of goods with a body built and designed for that purpose. Section 54-1 (76) Denver
Revised Municipal Code (D.R.M.C.)

Street or Highway – The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purpose of vehicular
travel, or the entire width of every way declared to be a public highway by any law of this state.
Section 54-1 (68) D.R.M.C.

Arterial Street – A through street whose primary function is carrying traffic beyond local
neighborhoods while still maintaining access to abutting properties. Section 54-1 (4) D.R.M.C.

Collector Street – A through street whose primary function is providing for the distribution of
traffic within neighborhoods while still maintaining access to abutting properties. Section 54-1
(14) D.R.M.C.

Local Street – A minor street whose primary function is providing access to abutting properties
while not normally carrying traffic beyond the local neighborhood. Section 54-1 (31) D.R.M.C.

Lane – The portion of a roadway for the movement of a single line of vehicles. Section 54-1 (26)
D.R.M.C.

Bicycle Facility – As defined herein, the portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive
movement of bicycles and electric mobility scooters.

Sidewalk – The portion of the Sidewalk Area which is paved. Section 54-1 (63) D.R.M.C.

Sidewalk Area – As defined herein, the portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the lateral property lines intended for the use of pedestrians. Section
54-1 (64) D.R.M.C.

Sensitive Non-Motorized Facilities – Existing elements within the Sidewalk Area of high value
to pedestrians and bicyclists, including, but not limited to, curb ramps, public transit stops,
pedestrian pushbuttons, bike share stations, building fire exits, building fire connections, and
fire hydrants.

Central Business District (CBD) – As defined herein, the boundaries outlining the CBD are
Interstate 25, Speer Boulevard, 13th Avenue, Lincoln Street, 20th Street, Broadway, and Park
Avenue West.

3/4/2022  Page 1 of 11
