 3. The method for providing safe accommodations for bicyclists when closing a Bicycle Facility
     should be prioritized as follows:

         a. Provide a Bicycle Facility on the same roadway by shifting and narrowing the
             adjacent motor vehicle traffic lane(s)

         b. Provide a Bicycle Facility in place of an existing motor vehicle traffic lane or parking
             lane

         c. Merge bicyclists and adjacent motor vehicle traffic into a shared travel lane
         d. Provide a bicycle detour route that maintains equal or better levels of safety and

             amenity as the closed Bicycle Facility

IV. STREET OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS

 1. Time Requirements

         a. Request for an RSOP that is not listed below must be submitted no later than five (5)
             days prior to the requested occupancy date.

         b. Requests for an RSOP that involves any type of construction or demolition (including
             street cuts) must be submitted no later than ten (10) days prior to the requested
             occupancy date.

         c. Requests for an RSOP that involves Special Events must be submitted no later than
             sixty (60) days prior to the requested occupancy date.

         d. Requests for block parties and filming requests must be submitted no later than five
             (5) days prior to the requested occupancy date.

         e. Permittees are strongly encouraged to contact ROWS prior to submitting an RSOP
             request, so that they fully understand adjacent projects, potentially impacted
             sidewalks, Sidewalk Areas and Bicycle Facilities, and notification requirements.

 2. Project Coordination

         a. The Permittee must coordinate permit work zone signage, dates, days, and hours of
             use with previously-approved permits to ensure compatibility of temporary traffic
             control systems and avoid duplicate signage or impacts to permitted detours or
             public transit.

         b. The CTE may require the Permittee to revise the RSOP request and coordinate with
             other permits that have already been issued. Abutting, overlapping, or conflicting
             permits are reviewed on a first-submitted, first-served basis.

 3. Notification

         a. In the event of a motor vehicle traffic lane, sidewalk, Sidewalk Area, or Bicycle
             Facility closure, the Permittee must notify adjacent property owners, business

3/4/2022  Page 4 of 11
