   ii. The pedestrian route shall have a clear and unobstructed height of not less than eighty (80) inches
        vertical above the walkway. Objects projecting from walls with their leading edges between twenty-
        seven (27) and eighty (80) inches above the pathway shall protrude no more than four (4) inches
        laterally into the pedestrian route.

   iii. Generally, a concrete sidewalk may serve as the floor of the walkway. Structural floors are not
        required unless needed to cross an opening, mitigate a newly created obstruction in the sidewalk, or
        comply with ADA requirements. A well-defined surface shall be provided if pedestrians are to be
        routed off a paved sidewalk or into a roadway area. The surface shall be solid, slip resistant, and
        well-drained so that pedestrians do not travel through water. The transition between the temporary
        pathway surface and the permanent sidewalk shall be without abrupt breaks or changes in level
        exceeding one half (1/2) inch.

c. Bicycle Lane Impacts
    i. Temporary bicycle lanes may be delineated by cones or tubular markers, but at no time shall the
        clear width of a bicycle lane be less than five (5) feet (excluding gutter pan width).
   ii. The Permittee shall maintain a clear and clean path of travel for bicyclists at all times. At no time
        should bicyclists be directed to ride on gravel surfaces or rough and broken pavement sections.
   iii. Any surface discontinuities greater than one (1) inch, including utility covers, steel plates, and storm
        drains, shall be sloped or tapered by temporary patches or shims to avoid creating a traffic hazard.
   iv. Any temporary steel plates shall be covered with a material that increases friction (friction
        coefficient minimum of 0.35) and shall have beveled leading and trailing edges or pavement wedges.

d. Construction Fencing
    i. A fence shall be provided on the construction-facing side of any detour and shall be continuous for
        the full length, except for gates. The fence shall be at least seven (7) feet in height, unless otherwise
        provided. Fence footings shall not protrude into the minimum PAR width.
   ii. If construction or demolition activity may create flying debris or dust or otherwise affect pedestrians
        on a nearby pedestrian route or traffic on the adjacent lane, the fence shall be solid and tight, except
        for gates or view holes with protective screening provided for the public.
   iii. A gate shall swing inward, and any gate in the fence shall swing away from the path of pedestrian or
        bicycle travel and towards the abutting property where the work activity is occurring. Any gate shall
        be securely fastened in a closed position when not in use.

e. Traffic Barriers
    i. Where determined by the City Traffic Engineer, a pedestrian route adjacent to a travel lane shall
        have a continuous, impact-rated, orange or orange-and-white barricade that is anchored or
        stabilized to protect pedestrians from vehicles. Water-filled barricades shall be filled to
        manufacturers’ specifications.
   ii. Channelization and barricades shall not impede sight distance at corners or block access to any
        pedestrian push button, traffic signal, or ADA infrastructure.
   iii. The Permittee shall inspect barriers and other protective devices every 24 hours or more frequently.

                                  City and County of Denver — Department of Transportation & Infrastructure
                                                201 West Colfax Ave. Dept. 608 | Denver, CO 80202
                                                                  www.denvergov.org/doti
                                                                   Phone: 720-865-8630
