Page 848              MUTCD 11th Edition

  Guidance:

07 If morning and evening peak hour vehicular traffic volumes in the two directions are uneven and the greater
  volume is on the side where the work is being done in the right-hand lane, consideration should be given to
  closing the inside lane for opposing vehicular traffic and making the lane available to the side with heavier
  vehicular traffic, as shown in Figure 6P-31.

08 If the larger vehicular traffic volume changes to the opposite direction at a different time of the day, the TTC
  should be changed to allow two lanes for opposing vehicular traffic by moving the devices from the opposing lane
  to the center line. When it is necessary to create a temporary center line that is not consistent with the pavement
  markings, channelizing devices should be used and closely spaced.
  Option:

09 When closing a left-hand lane on a multi-lane undivided road, as vehicular traffic flow permits, the two interior
  lanes may be closed, as shown in Figure 6P-30, to provide drivers and workers additional lateral clearance and to
  provide access to the work space.
  Standard:

10 When only the left-hand lane is closed on undivided roads, channelizing devices shall be placed along
  the center line as well as along the adjacent lane.

  Guidance:

11 When an interior lane is closed, an adjacent lane should also be considered for closure to provide additional
  space for vehicles and materials and to facilitate the movement of equipment within the work space.

12 When multiple lanes in one direction are closed, a capacity analysis should be made to determine the number
  of lanes needed to accommodate motor vehicle traffic needs. Vehicular traffic should be moved over one lane at
  a time. As shown in Figure 6P-37, the tapers should be separated by a distance of 2L, with L being determined by
  the formulas in Tables 6B-3 and 6B-4.
  Option:

13 If operating speeds are 40 mph or less and the space approaching the work area does not permit moving traffic
  over one lane at a time, a single continuous taper may be used.
  Standard:

14 When a directional roadway is closed, inapplicable WRONG WAY signs and markings, and other
  existing traffic control devices at intersections within the temporary two-lane, two-way operations section
  shall be covered, removed, or obliterated.

  Option:
15 When half the road is closed on an undivided highway, both directions of vehicular traffic may be

  accommodated as shown in Figure 6P-32. When both interior lanes are closed, temporary traffic controls may be
  used as provided in Figure 6P-30. When a roadway must be closed on a divided highway, a median crossover may
  be used (see Section 6N.15).
  Support:
16 TTC for lane closures on five-lane roads is similar to other multi-lane undivided roads. Figure 6P-32 can be
  adapted for use on five-lane roads. Figure 6P-35 can be used on a five-lane road for short-duration and mobile
  operations.

Section 6N.12 Work within the Traveled Way at an Intersection
  Support:

01 Chapter 6C and Sections 6M.04 and 6N.04 contain additional information regarding the steps to follow when
  pedestrian or bicycle facilities are affected by the worksite.

02 The typical applications for intersections are classified according to the location of the work space with respect
  to the intersection area (as defined by the extension of the curb or edge lines). The three classifications are near
  side, far side, and in-the-intersection. Work spaces often extend into more than one portion of the intersection.
  For example, work in one quadrant often creates a near-side work space on one street and a far-side work space
  on the cross street. In such instances, an appropriate TTC plan is obtained by combining features shown in two or
  more of the intersection and pedestrian typical applications.

03 TTC zones in the vicinity of intersections might block movements and interfere with normal road user flows.
  Such conflicts frequently occur at more complex signalized intersections having such features as traffic signal
  heads over particular lanes, lanes allocated to specific movements, multiple signal phases, signal detectors for
  actuated control, and accessible pedestrian signals and detectors.

Sect. 6N.11 to 6N.12  December 2023
