Page 832              MUTCD 11th Edition

21 All messages should be designed with consideration given to the principles provided in this Section and also
  taking into account the following:

       A. The message should be as brief as possible and should contain three thoughts (with each thought
            preferably shown on its own line) that convey:
            1. The problem or situation that the road user will encounter ahead,
            2. The location of or distance to the problem or situation, and
            3. The recommended driver action.

       B. If more than two phases are needed to display a message, additional portable changeable message signs
            should be used. When multiple portable changeable message signs are needed, they should be placed
            on the same side of the roadway and they should be separated from each other by a distance of at least
            1,000 feet on freeways and expressways, and by a distance of at least 500 feet on other types of highways.

  Standard:

22 When the word messages shown in Tables 1D-1 or 1D-2 need to be abbreviated on a portable
  changeable message sign, the provisions described in Section 1D.08 shall be followed.

23 In order to maintain legibility, portable changeable message signs shall automatically adjust their
  brightness under varying light conditions.

24 The control system shall include a display screen upon which messages can be reviewed before being
  displayed on the message sign. The control system shall be capable of maintaining memory when power
  is unavailable.

25 Portable changeable message signs shall be equipped with a power source and a battery back-up to
  provide continuous operation when failure of the primary power source occurs.

26 The mounting of portable changeable message signs on a trailer, a large truck, or a service patrol truck
  shall be such that the bottom of the message sign shall be a minimum of 7 feet above the roadway in urban
  areas and 5 feet above the roadway in rural areas when it is in the operating mode.

  Guidance:

27 Portable changeable message signs should be used as a supplement to and not as a substitute for
  conventional signs and pavement markings.

28 When portable changeable message signs are used for route diversion, they should be placed far enough in
  advance of the diversion to allow road users ample opportunity to perform necessary lane changes, to adjust
  their speed, or to exit the affected highway.

29 Portable changeable message signs should be sited and aligned to provide maximum legibility and to allow
  time for road users to respond appropriately to the portable changeable message sign message.

30 Portable changeable message signs should be placed off the shoulder of the roadway and behind a traffic
  barrier, if practicable. Where a traffic barrier is not available to shield the portable changeable message sign,
  it should be placed off the shoulder and outside of the clear zone. If a portable changeable message sign has to
  be placed on the shoulder of the roadway or within the clear zone, it should be delineated with retroreflective
  TTC devices.

31 When portable changeable message signs are used in TTC zones, they should display only TTC messages.
32 When portable changeable message signs are not being used to display TTC messages, they should be

  relocated such that they are outside of the clear zone or shielded behind a traffic barrier and turned away from
  traffic. If relocation or shielding is impracticable, they should be delineated with retroreflective TTC devices.
33 Portable changeable message sign trailers should be delineated on a permanent basis by affixing
  retroreflective material, known as conspicuity material, in a continuous line on the face of the trailer as seen by
  oncoming road users.

Section 6L.06 Arrow Boards

  Standard:

01 An arrow board shall be a sign with a matrix of elements capable of either flashing or sequential
  displays. This sign shall provide additional warning and directional information to assist in merging and
  controlling road users through or around a TTC zone.

  Guidance:

02 An arrow board in the arrow or chevron mode should be used to advise approaching traffic of a lane closure
  along major multi-lane roadways in situations involving heavy traffic volumes, high speeds, and/or limited
  sight distances, or at other locations and under other conditions where road users are less likely to expect such
  lane closures.

Sect. 6L.05 to 6L.06  December 2023
