MUTCD 11th Edition  Page 833

03 If used, an arrow board should be used in combination with appropriate signs, channelizing devices, or other
  TTC devices.

04 An arrow board should be placed on the shoulder of the roadway or, if practicable, farther from the traveled
  lane. It should be delineated with retroreflective TTC devices. When an arrow board is not being used, it should
  be removed; if not removed, it should be shielded; or if the previous two options are not feasible, it should be
  delineated with retroreflective TTC devices.
  Standard:

05 Arrow boards shall meet the minimum size, legibility distance, number of elements, and other
  specifications shown in Figure 6L-3.
  Support:

06 Type A arrow boards are appropriate for use on low-speed urban streets. Type B arrow boards are appropriate
  for intermediate-speed facilities and for maintenance or mobile operations on high-speed roadways. Type C arrow
  boards are intended to be used on high-speed, high-volume motor vehicle traffic control projects. Type D arrow
  boards are intended for use on vehicles authorized by the State or local agency.
  Standard:

07 Type A, B, and C arrow boards shall have solid rectangular appearances. A Type D arrow board shall
  conform to the shape of the arrow.

08 All arrow boards shall be finished in non-reflective black. The arrow board shall be mounted on a
  vehicle, a trailer, or other suitable support.

  Guidance:

09 The minimum mounting height, measured vertically from the bottom of the board to the roadway below it or
  to the elevation of the near edge of the roadway, of an arrow board should be 7 feet, except on vehicle-mounted
  arrow boards, which should be as high as practicable.

10 A vehicle-mounted arrow board should be provided with remote controls.
  Standard:

11 Arrow board elements shall be capable of at least a 50 percent dimming from full brilliance. The
  dimmed mode shall be used for nighttime operation of arrow boards.

  Guidance:

12 Full brilliance should be used for daytime operation of arrow boards.
  Standard:

13 The arrow board shall have suitable elements capable of the various operating modes. The color
  presented by the elements shall be yellow.

  Guidance:

14 If an arrow board consisting of a bulb matrix is used, the elements should be recess-mounted or equipped
  with an upper hood of not less than 180 degrees.
  Standard:

15 The minimum element on-time shall be 50 percent for the flashing mode, with equal intervals of 25
  percent for each sequential phase. The flashing rate shall be not less than 25 or more than 40 flashes
  per minute.

16 An arrow board shall have the following three mode selections:

       A. A Flashing Arrow, Sequential Arrow, or Sequential Chevron mode;
       B. A flashing Double Arrow mode; and
       C. A flashing Caution or Alternating Diamond mode.
17 An arrow board in the arrow or chevron mode shall be used only for stationary or moving lane closures
  on multi-lane roadways.

18 For shoulder work, for blocking the shoulder, for roadside work near the shoulder, or for temporarily
  closing one lane on a two-lane, two-way roadway, an arrow board shall be used only in the caution mode.

  Guidance:

19 For a stationary lane closure, the arrow board should be located on the shoulder at the beginning of the
  merging taper.

20 Where the shoulder is narrow, the arrow board should be located in the closed lane.

December 2023       Sect. 6L.06
