Page 934     MUTCD 11th Edition

                                Notes for Figure 6P-38—Typical Application 38

                                       Interior Lane Closure on a Freeway

Standard:

    1. An arrow board shall be used when a freeway lane is closed. When more than one freeway lane is
         closed, a separate arrow board shall be used for each closed lane.

    2. If temporary traffic barriers are installed, they shall comply with the provisions and requirements
         in Section 6M.02.

    3. The barrier shall not be placed along the shifting taper. The lane shall first be shifted using
         channelizing devices and pavement markings.

    4. For long-term stationary work, existing conflicting pavement markings shall be removed and
         temporary markings shall be installed before traffic patterns are changed.

Guidance:

    5. For a long-term closure, a barrier should be used to provide additional safety to the operation in the
         closed interior lane. A buffer space should be used at the upstream end of the closed interior lane.

    6. An arrow board displaying an arrow pointing to the right should be placed on the left-hand shoulder at
         the beginning of the taper.

    7. For long-term use, the broken lane lines should be made solid white in the two-lane section.
Option:

    8. As an alternative to initially closing the left-hand lane, as shown in the typical application, the right-hand
         lane may be closed in advance of the interior lane closure with appropriate channelization and signs. The
         Interior Lane Shift Ahead symbol sign may be mirrored to indicate a right lane shift.

    9. A short, single row of channelizing devices in advance of the vehicular traffic split to restrict vehicular
         traffic to their respective lanes may be added.

    10. DO NOT PASS signs may be used.
    11. If a paved shoulder having a minimum width of 10 feet and sufficient strength is available, the left-hand

         and center lanes may be closed and motor vehicle traffic carried around the work space on the right-hand
         lane and a right-hand shoulder.
    12. A work vehicle with a truck-mounted attenuator may be used within the closed interior lane between the
         buffer space and the work area.
    13. Positive protection devices may be used per Section 6M.02.
Guidance:

    14. When a shoulder lane is used that cannot adequately accommodate trucks, trucks should be directed to
         use the normal travel lanes.

Sect. 6P.01  December 2023
