MUTCD 11th Edition  Page 847

Section 6N.10 Work within the Traveled Way of an Urban Street

  Support:
01 Chapter 6C and Sections 6M.04 and 6N.04 contain additional information regarding the steps to follow when

  pedestrian or bicycle facilities are affected by the worksite.
02 In urban TTC zones, decisions are needed on how to control vehicular traffic, such as how many lanes

  are required, whether any turns need to be prohibited at intersections, and how to maintain access to business,
  industrial, and residential areas.
03 Pedestrian traffic needs separate attention. Chapter 6C contains information regarding pedestrian movements
  near TTC zones.
  Standard:

04 If the TTC zone affects the movement of bicyclists, adequate access to the roadway or shared-use paths
  shall be provided (see Part 9).

05 Where transit stops are affected or relocated because of work activity, both pedestrian and vehicular
  access to the affected or relocated transit stops shall be provided.

  Guidance:

06 If a designated bicycle route is closed because of the work being done, a signed alternate route should be
  provided. Bicyclists should not be directed onto the path used by pedestrians.

07 Worksites within the intersection should be protected against inadvertent pedestrian incursion by providing
  detectable channelizing devices.
  Support:

08 Utility work takes place both within and outside the roadway to construct and maintain services such as power,
  gas, light, water, or telecommunications. Operations often involve intersections, since that is where many of the
  network junctions occur. The work force is usually small, only a few vehicles are involved, and the number and
  types of TTC devices placed in the TTC zone is usually minimal.
  Guidance:

09 As discussed under short-duration projects, however, the reduced number of devices in utility TTC zones
  should be offset by the use of high-visibility devices, such as high-intensity rotating, flashing, oscillating, or strobe
  lights on work vehicles or high-level warning devices.
  Support:

10 Figures 6P-6, 6P-10, 6P-15, 6P-18, 6P-21, 6P-22, 6P-23, 6P-26, and 6P-33 are examples of typical applications
  for utility operations. Other typical applications might apply as well.

Section 6N.11 Work within the Traveled Way of a Multi-Lane, Non-Access Controlled Highway

  Support:
01 Chapter 6C and Sections 6M.04 and 6N.04 contain additional information regarding the steps to follow

  when pedestrian or bicycle facilities are affected by the worksite.
02 Work on multi-lane (two or more lanes of moving motor vehicle traffic in one direction) highways is

  divided into right-lane closures, left-lane closures, interior-lane closures, multiple-lane closures, and closures
  on five-lane roadways.
  Standard:

03 When a lane is closed on a multi-lane road for other than a mobile operation, a transition area
  containing a merging taper shall be used.

  Guidance:

04 When justified by an engineering study, temporary traffic barriers (see Section 6K.09) should be used
  to prevent incursions of errant vehicles into hazardous areas or work space.
  Support:

05 Figure 6P-34 illustrates a lane closure in which temporary traffic barriers are used.
  Option:

06 When the right-hand lane is closed, TTC similar to that shown in Figure 6P-33 may be used for undivided
  or divided four-lane roads.

December 2023       Sect. 6N.10 to 6N.11
