MUTCD 11th Edition  Page 845

  Guidance:

02 Where the situations described in Paragraph 1 of this Section exist, a single warning sign, such as ROAD
  WORK AHEAD (W20-1), should be used. If the equipment travels on the roadway, the equipment should be
  equipped with appropriate flags, high-intensity rotating, flashing, oscillating, or strobe lights, and/or a SLOW
  MOVING VEHICLE (W21-4) sign.

03 If work vehicles are on the shoulder, a SHOULDER WORK (W21-5) sign should be used.
04 A general warning sign like ROAD MACHINERY AHEAD (W21-3) should be used if workers and equipment

  must occasionally move onto the shoulder.
  Option:
05 For mowing operations, the sign MOWING AHEAD (W21-8) may be used.
06 Where the activity is spread out over a distance of more than 2 miles, the SHOULDER WORK (W21-5) sign
  may be repeated every 1 mile.
07 A supplementary plaque with the message NEXT XX MILES (W7-3aP) may be used.

Section 6N.06 Work on the Shoulder with No Encroachment

  Support:
01 The provisions of this Section apply to short-term through long-term stationary operations.

  Standard:

02 When paved shoulders having a width of 8 feet or more are closed, at least one advance warning sign
  shall be used. In addition, channelizing devices shall be used to close the shoulder in advance to delineate
  the beginning of the work space and direct motor vehicle traffic to remain within the traveled way.
  Guidance:

03 When paved shoulders having a width of 8 feet or more are closed on freeways and expressways, road
  users should be warned about potential disabled vehicles that cannot get off the traveled way. An initial
  general warning sign, such as ROAD WORK AHEAD (W20-1), should be used, followed by a RIGHT or LEFT
  SHOULDER CLOSED (W21-5a) sign. Where the downstream end of the shoulder closure extends beyond the
  distance that can be perceived by road users, a supplementary plaque bearing the message NEXT XX FEET
  (W16-4P) or MILES (W7-3aP) should be placed below the SHOULDER CLOSED (W21-5a) sign. On multi-lane,
  divided highways, signs advising of shoulder work or the condition of the shoulder should be placed only on the
  side of the affected shoulder.

04 When an improved shoulder is closed on a high-speed roadway, it should be treated as a closure of a portion
  of the road system because road users expect to be able to use it in emergencies. Road users should be given
  ample advance warning that shoulders are closed for use as refuge areas throughout a specified length of the
  approaching TTC zone. The sign(s) should read SHOULDER CLOSED (W21-5a) with distances indicated. The
  work space on the shoulder should be closed off by a taper or channelizing devices with a length of ¹⁄3 L using the
  formulas in Tables 6B-3 and 6B-4.

05 When the shoulder is not occupied but work has adversely affected its condition, the LOW SHOULDER
  (W8-9) or SOFT SHOULDER (W8-4) sign should be used, as appropriate.

06 Where the condition extends over a distance in excess of 1 mile, the sign should be repeated at 1-mile intervals.
  Option:

07 In addition, a supplementary plaque bearing the message NEXT XX MILES (W7-3aP) may be used.
  Support:

08 Temporary traffic barriers might be needed to inhibit encroachment of errant vehicles into the work space and
  to protect workers.
  Standard:

09 When used for shoulder work, arrow boards shall operate only in the caution mode.

  Support:
10 A typical application for stationary work operations on shoulders is shown in Figure 6P-3. A typical

  application for short-duration or mobile work on shoulders is shown in Figure 6P-4. A typical application for
  work on freeway shoulders is shown in Figure 6P-5.

December 2023       Sect. 6N.05 to 6N.06
