MUTCD 11th Edition  Page 789

          CHAPTER 6F. TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL ZONE SIGNS – GENERAL

Section 6F.01 General Characteristics of TTC Zone Signs
  Support:

01 TTC zone signs convey both general and specific messages by means of words, symbols, and/or arrows and
  have the same three categories as all road user signs: regulatory, warning, and guide.
  Option:

02 Where the color orange is required, the fluorescent orange color may also be used.
  Support:

03 The fluorescent version of orange provides higher conspicuity than standard orange, especially during twilight.
  Option:

04 Standard orange flags, flashing beacons, and/or flashing warning lights may be used in conjunction with signs.
  Standard:

05 When standard orange flags, flashing beacons, and/or flashing warning lights are used in conjunction
  with a sign, they shall not block the sign face.

06 Except as provided in Section 2A.07, the sizes for TTC signs and plaques shall be as shown in Tables
  6G-1, 6H-1, and 6I-1. The sizes in the minimum column shall only be used on low-volume rural roads, local
  streets, or roadways where the operating speed is 30 mph or less.

  Option:
07 The dimensions of signs and plaques shown in Tables 6G-1, 6H-1, and 6I-1 may be increased wherever

  necessary for greater legibility or emphasis.
  Guidance:

08 Deviations from standard sizes as prescribed in this Manual should be in 6-inch increments.
  Support:

09 Sign design details are contained in the “Standard Highway Signs” publication (see Section 1A.05).
10 Section 2A.04 contains additional information regarding the design of signs, including an Option allowing the

  development of special word message signs if a standard word message or symbol sign is not available to convey
  the necessary regulatory, warning, or guidance information.
  Standard:

11 All signs used at night shall be either retroreflective or illuminated to show the same shape and similar
  color both day and night.

12 The requirement for sign illumination shall not be considered to be satisfied by street, highway, or
  strobe lighting.

  Option:
13 Sign illumination may be either internal or external.
14 Signs may be made of rigid or flexible material.

Section 6F.02 Sign Placement
  Guidance:

01 Signs should be located on the right-hand side of the roadway unless otherwise provided in this Manual.
  Option:

02 Where special emphasis is needed, signs may be placed on both the left-hand and right-hand sides of the
  roadway. Signs mounted on portable supports may be placed within the roadway itself. Signs may also be mounted
  on or above barricades.
  Support:

03 The provisions of this Section regarding mounting height apply unless otherwise provided for a particular sign
  elsewhere in this Manual.
  Standard:

04 The minimum height, measured vertically from the bottom of the sign to the elevation of the near edge
  of the pavement, of signs installed at the side of the road in rural areas shall be 5 feet (see Figure 6F-1).

December 2023       Sect. 6F.01 to 6F.02
